# useState: tic tac toe

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/04.md`

### (most notes are included in my exercise solution files themselves)

04.extra-3 in particular has a compilation of notes, from specifics to this
exercise, things learned about hooks or React, to reminders about usage of basic
javascript functions. I believe 04.extra-2 also has quite a few notes. For
completeness: scan all the files in this lesson.

### On 04-classes: refactor class component to functional component with hooks: Insight / felt Experience Gained from this Exercise.

Interesting how useEffect() means we do not need to manage any calls to
`updateLocalStorage()` function. It just happens automatically. With classes we
had to call this function whenever we changed (relevant) state - WE had to
manually manage it, manually call the function.

With useEffect, only available in functional components, we write the useEffect
function, but then React manages when it needs to be called. True, we give it
the dependancy array. But we never have to physically call (it or any other). No
matter how many more places we decide to add code that changes (relevant) state,
we never have to think to _also_ call that side effect code. It (useEffect) is
declarative code, and React handles the details of maintaining (calling) that
function (code) when necessary. Quite neat.

Had I not done this exercise I would never have experienced this insight.

Of course, the other great thing is not needing to do componentDidMount, etc.
Which I already knew about. But in doing the refactor I could see a little bit
how much coding overhead/thought process, and sort-of (but not really)
duplicated code, and code management useState takes care of. It is actually a
little bit less to think about when writing components.

All-in-all, there is less hand-holding management of state overall when using
hooks. I still like class based components, but I am beginning to perhaps
prefer, or at least see some benefits hooks/functional components provide. They
are a little bit messier to read without encapsulation, and even because the
lack of a `this` keyword. It might be more difficult to keep track of the origin
of some variables?? But maybe it just seemed that way as I was first introduced
the them. Time will tell. Obviously, though, hooks are the future. And I am now
more fine with that.

---

## Background

A `name` is one thing, but a real UI is a bit different. Often you need more
than one element of state in your component, so you'll call `React.useState`
more than once. Please note that each call to `React.useState` in a given
component will give you a unique state and updater function.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/04.js)
- [Final](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.js)

We're going to build tic-tac-toe (with localStorage support)! If you've gone
through React's official tutorial, this was lifted from that (except that
example still uses classes).

You're going to need some managed state and some derived state:

- **Managed State:** State that you need to explicitly manage
- **Derived State:** State that you can calculate based on other state

`squares` is the managed state and it's the state of the board in a
single-dimensional array:

```
[
  'X', 'O', 'X',
  'X', 'O', 'O',
  'X', 'X', 'O'
]
```

This will start out as an empty array because it's the start of the game.

`nextValue` will be either the string `X` or `O` and is derived state which you
can determine based on the value of `squares`. We can determine whose turn it is
based on how many "X" and "O" squares there are. We've written this out for you
in a `calculateNextValue` function at the bottom of the file.

`winner` will be either the string `X` or `O` and is derived state which can
also be determined based on the value of `squares` and we've provided a
`calculateWinner` function you can use to get that value.

📜 Read more about derived state in
[Don't Sync State. Derive It!](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/dont-sync-state-derive-it)

### Alternate:

If you'd prefer to practice refactoring a class that does this to a hook, then
you can open `src/exercise/04-classes.js` and open that on
[an isolated page](http://localhost:3000/isolated/exercise/04-classes.js) to
practice that.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 preserve state in localStorage

[Production deploy](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-1.js)

👨‍💼 Our customers want to be able to pause a game, close the tab, and then resume
the game later. Can you store the game's state in `localStorage`?

### 2. 💯 useLocalStorageState

[Production deploy](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-2.js)

It's cool that we can get localStorage support with a simple `useEffect`, but
it'd be even cooler to use the `useLocalStorageState` hook that's already
written for us in `src/utils.js`!

Refactor your code to use that custom hook instead. (This should be a pretty
quick extra credit).

### 3. 💯 add game history feature

[Production deploy](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-3.js)

Open `http://localhost:3000/isolated/final/04.extra-3.js` and see that the extra
version supports keeping a history of the game and allows you to go backward and
forward in time. See if you can implement that!

NOTE: This extra credit is one of the harder extra credits. Don't worry if you
struggle on it!

💰 Tip, in the final example, we store the history of squares in an array of
arrays. `[[/* step 0 squares */], [/* step 1 squares */], ...etc]`, so we have
two states: `history` and `currentStep`.

💰 Tip, in the final example, we move the state management from the `Board`
component to the `Game` component and that helps a bit. Here's what the JSX
returned from the `Game` component is in the final version:

```javascript
return (
  <div className="game">
    <div className="game-board">
      <Board onClick={selectSquare} squares={currentSquares} />
      <button className="restart" onClick={restart}>
        restart
      </button>
    </div>
    <div className="game-info">
      <div>{status}</div>
      <ol>{moves}</ol>
    </div>
  </div>
)
```

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Hooks%20%F0%9F%8E%A3&e=04%3A%20useState%3A%20tic%20tac%20toe&em=).
