src/exercise/05.md, before:

# useRef and useEffect: DOM interaction

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/05.md`

## Background

Often when working with React you'll need to integrate with UI libraries. Some
of these need to work directly with the DOM. Remember that when you do:
`<div>hi</div>` that's actually syntactic sugar for a `React.createElement` so
you don't actually have access to DOM nodes in your function component. In fact,
DOM nodes aren't created at all until the `ReactDOM.render` method is called.
Your function component is really just responsible for creating and returning
React Elements and has nothing to do with the DOM in particular.

So to get access to the DOM, you need to ask React to give you access to a
particular DOM node when it renders your component. The way this happens is
through a special prop called `ref`.

Here's a simple example of using the `ref` prop:

```javascript
function MyDiv() {
  const myDivRef = React.useRef()
  React.useEffect(() => {
    const myDiv = myDivRef.current
    // myDiv is the div DOM node!
    console.log(myDiv)
  }, [])
  return <div ref={myDivRef}>hi</div>
}
```

After the component has been rendered, it's considered "mounted." That's when
the React.useEffect callback is called and so by that point, the ref should have
its `current` property set to the DOM node. So often you'll do direct DOM
interactions/manipulations in the `useEffect` callback.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/05.js)
- [Final](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.js)

In this exercise we're going to make a `<Tilt />` component that renders a div
and uses the `vanilla-tilt` library to make it super fancy.

The thing is, `vanilla-tilt` works directly with DOM nodes to setup event
handlers and stuff, so we need access to the DOM node. But because we're not the
one calling `document.createElement` (React does) we need React to give it to
us.

So in this exercise we're going to use a `ref` so React can give us the DOM node
and then we can pass that on to `vanilla-tilt`.

Additionally, we'll need to clean up after ourselves if this component is
unmounted. Otherwise we'll have event handlers dangling around on DOM nodes that
are no longer in the document.

### Alternate:

If you'd prefer to practice refactoring a class that does this to a hook, then
you can open `src/exercise/05-classes.js` and open that on
[an isolated page](http://localhost:3000/isolated/exercise/05-classes.js) to
practice that.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Hooks%20%F0%9F%8E%A3&e=05%3A%20useRef%20and%20useEffect%3A%20DOM%20interaction&em=).

Commit message:

WIP & PR suggestions for 05:3rd party (no compile)
WIP commit b/c have to leave. The code does not compile.

PR suggestions for 05.md, styles.css, and maybe even 05.js
	- 05.md : link to VanillaTilt docs,
	- styles: comment sections for lesson 4 & 5, already exists for 6)

Begin solution for 05: VanillaTilt
	(useRef on 3rd party requiring DOM node access)
Tons of commentary on how I think useRef, DOM, VanillaTilt, & app works.

----
On branch sh
	modified:   src/exercise/05.js
	modified:   src/exercise/05.md
	modified:   src/styles.css

src/exercise/05.md, after:

# useRef and useEffect: DOM interaction

## 📝 Your Notes

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

(_stop undoing my line breaks (double spaces at the end of lines) on my comments
in this Notes section_)

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/05.md`  

[VanillaTilt library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vanilla-tilt)  
or should I use their [github link](https://github.com/micku7zu/vanilla-tilt.js#readme) or [npm link](https://www.npm.com/package/vanilla-tilt) instead of the npmjs link?? (github has a "buy me a beer" link; npm and npmjs do not :-( ) Ok, github links to the npmjs.com version, not the npm.com version. Easier to read docs/readme from npm than github, so use that link. Also, npm links to the repo. Do not need access to full repo for basic usage instructions, so it is overkill for first link.

OK, actually, this link is better for seeing how to use Vanilla-Tilt, and what the options mean: [Vanilla Tilt usage examples](https://micku7zu.github.io/vanilla-tilt.js/)

TODO: above link really should be added to the Instructions below. We need to
reference the library readme in order to know where to pass the ref prop to it, 
and so we know how to style the component.  
  Consider adding a PR to add a link to the instructions (and/or to the exercise file)? (I already added it to MY copy, see below. It is NOT on the master in Dodd's repo.)

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Background

Often when working with React you'll need to integrate with UI libraries. Some
of these need to work directly with the DOM. Remember that when you do:
`<div>hi</div>` that's actually syntactic sugar for a `React.createElement` so
you don't actually have access to DOM nodes in your function component. In fact,
DOM nodes aren't created at all until the `ReactDOM.render` method is called.
Your function component is really just responsible for creating and returning
React Elements and has nothing to do with the DOM in particular.

So to get access to the DOM, you need to ask React to give you access to a
particular DOM node when it renders your component. The way this happens is
through a special prop called `ref`.

Here's a simple example of using the `ref` prop:

```javascript
function MyDiv() {
  const myDivRef = React.useRef()
  React.useEffect(() => {
    const myDiv = myDivRef.current
    // myDiv is the div DOM node!
    // SH Notes: HERE is where we do stuff that needs the DOM node.
    //   ie here is where we would pass the DOM node (myDiv) to the 3rd party library.
    console.log(myDiv)
  }, [])
  return <div ref={myDivRef}>hi</div>
}
```

After the component has been rendered, it's considered "mounted." That's when
the React.useEffect callback is called and so by that point, the ref should have
its `current` property set to the DOM node. So often you'll do direct DOM
interactions/manipulations in the `useEffect` callback.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/05.js)
- [Final](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.js)

In this exercise we're going to make a `<Tilt />` component that renders a div
and uses the
[`vanilla-tilt` library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vanilla-tilt) to make it
super fancy.

The thing is, `vanilla-tilt` works directly with DOM nodes to setup event
handlers and stuff, so we need access to the DOM node. But because we're not the
one calling `document.createElement` (React does) we need React to give it to
us.

So in this exercise we're going to use a `ref` so React can give us the DOM node
and then we can pass that on to `vanilla-tilt`.

Additionally, we'll need to clean up after ourselves if this component is
unmounted. Otherwise we'll have event handlers dangling around on DOM nodes that
are no longer in the document.

### Alternate:

If you'd prefer to practice refactoring a class that does this to a hook, then
you can open `src/exercise/05-classes.js` and open that on
[an isolated page](http://localhost:3000/isolated/exercise/05-classes.js) to
practice that.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Hooks%20%F0%9F%8E%A3&e=05%3A%20useRef%20and%20useEffect%3A%20DOM%20interaction&em=).
